okay welcome back to natural language
processing the next segment is going to
be about semantics
it's one of the most important areas in
natural language processing and it ties
nicely with logic and philosophy and
knowledge representation so semantics is
about meaning and it can be defined not
just for language but it can also be
defined for many different things for
example for a thematic expressions so if
I give you this expression 5 plus 2
times 4 plus 3 and I ask what is the
meaning of this well it's fairly
straightforward you can say our five
plus two is seven four plus three is
seven seven times seven is forty-nine
therefore the meaning of this expression
is 49 so we can build this by building a
parse tree of the sentence or in this
case there is matic expression we have
five and two as numbers they can be
converted to expressions then we can
have functors like plus so we can
combine nouns and functors into more
encompassing expressions again
expressions and functors recursively
until we get the top level e the value
of the expression which is equal to 49
so this is nice and we were able to
compute this 49 just by applying some
recursive principles to do it no
expression however what if we had an
variable or an unknown value somewhere
in this expression for example five plus
two times four plus Z well what would be
the answer here Wow in this case we can
start with the same parse tree and we
have now a Z instead of a three in the
lower right hand corner and in this case
what we can see is that the value at the
top level is not a number but it is some
sort of procedure that lets you compute
the value of this node so it's a
multiplication of two numbers each of
which is the sum of two numbers the
first one being five and two the second
one adding four and Z even though we
don't know the exact value at the top
level here we can say that it can be
obtained by using this procedure once we
know the value of Z so in the sense we
have converted this expression into a
procedure that can compute its semantics
recursively now let's look at the
different example using natural language
text specifically and English language
sentence so we have something like
every human is mortal how can we define
the meaning of the sentence so the
presenting meaning is one of the most
important aspects of semantics and you
want to be able to capture the meaning
of linguistic utterances using some sort
of formal notation so what does it mean
to have meaning
well linguistic meaning can be very
different from what is known as
pragmatic meaning so if I say it is 8:00
p.m. I just mean that it is now 8:00
o'clock in the evening so that is the
linguistic meaning but the sentence can
also have a different pragmatic meaning
it may mean something like it is 8:00
p.m. which means that it is time to
leave I can point you to my watch and
say it's 8:00 p.m. and I really mean
let's go so semantic analysis we want to
assign each of the words some sort of a
meaning and then combine the meanings of
the words to form the meaning of phrases
and then by extension entire sentences
so ultimately you want to be able to
convert a sentence like I bought a book
into something like this there exists
objects x and y where x is an instance
of a buying event and this buying event
has two arguments a buyer and a both
item the buyer is the same as the
speaker or I the both item is y and y is
a book so this would be a legitimate
first order logic representation of the
center so we're going to get to
first-order logic in the next few slides
ok so now that your presentation of the
same sentence may be something like this
where we have a record that consists of
a predicate buying and then to attribute
value pairs for its arguments a buyer
who is the speaker of the sentence and a
both item that is the book let's now
introduce two important concepts in
semantics and semantic analysis which
we'll use later on one is called
entailment that the second one is called
presupposition so what is interment and
there is one one facts follows from one
another so for example if I say that all
cats have whiskers and Martin is a cat
that means that we can entail the
statement Martin has whiskers so the
fact Martin has whiskers isn't tell from
the other two and our example is if I
know that Martin
whiskers and a tail that entails the
fact Martin has whiskers so we can drop
a tail and still have a valid statement
now let's look at presupposition so
presupposition can be better explained
with an example if I say the queen of
utopia is dead that means that we
presuppose that utopia has a queen
otherwise the sentence doesn't make any
sense so now it's a good point to
introduce one of the Necropolis from
2010 that describes and terminal
presupposition in more detail so this
problem was written by lack of black
walk and it's available in the Nakhla
website so let me show the problem now
so the first part of the poem introduces
the concepts of entailment and
presupposition so the bottom part gives
you examples of entailment and then on
the next slide we have examples of
presupposition so for example for
presupposition if I say I regret not
seeing Shaun White's gold medal run that
presupposes that Shaun White had a gold
medal and otherwise it doesn't make
sense ok so then the questions are for
any given pair of sentences it is
possible that you have entailment and
presupposition or none of the above or
just one so the question is asking you
to give examples of pairs of sentences
where in a a neither entails not
presuppose a sentence B second question
is to come up with example sentences
where a entails and presupposes B the
third example the fourth example asked
you for cases where either you have
proposition but not entailment or the
other way around so let's take about
examples of those sentences and then you
will get to see the answers on the next
slide so again pulled from the Nok law
website we have the examples of each of
those four combinations of n-terminal
presupposition you can go through them
and understand why they were selected so
on the first page we have none of the
above and both and on the second slide
we have just one or just the other one
okay so now this concludes this
introductory segment on semantics